h1. Automatic Maintenance Helpers

These help with some basic wiki maintenance tasks:

h2. Delete Old Pages Helper

This permanently deletes deleted pages.

To use, put the following in your start.rb file:
# @require 'maintenance-helpers'@
# @DeleteOldPagesHelper.new(wiki)@

This will by default scan the wiki once per day and permanently delete pages that have been marked for deletiob for more than 100 days.

It has two optional parameters: @DeleteOldPagesHelper( event_to_check_on, age_to_wipe_at)@, the first can be :min, :hour, :day, ;month, :year and the age is in seconds.

h2. Delete Old Revisions Helper

This permanently deletes old revisions.

To use, put the following in your start.rb file:
# @require 'maintenance-helpers'@
# @DeleteOldRevisionsHelper.new(wiki)@

This will by default scan the wiki once per day and permanenty delete revisions that are more than a hundred days old, being sure to leave at least 20 revisions on a page.

It has three optional parameters @DeleteOldRevisionsHelper(( wiki, event_to_check_on = :day, age_to_wipe_at = 60*60*24*365, minimum_revisions = 20 )@ the first can be :min, :hour, :day, ;month, :year and the age is in seconds.

h2. Merge Old Revisions Helper

By default this wakes up each hour and merges all revisions more than 24 hours old, by the same author, and that are created within an hour of each other.

To use, put the following in your start.rb file:
# @require 'maintenance-helpers'@
# @MergeOldRevisionsHelper.new(wiki)@

It has three optional parameters @DeleteOldRevisionsHelper(( wiki, eevent_to_check_on = :day, minimum_age_to_merge = 60*60*24*365, maximum_time_between_revisions_for_merge = 60*60 )@ the first can be :min, :hour, :day, ;month, :year and the age and time are in seconds.

Tag: Include this page in the distribution
