h1. Automatic Importers

There are currently two automatic importers.  (You can also manually import data, see how to import data).

h2. Mail2WikiHelper

The mail to wiki helper periodically scans an email folder on an imap server, and copies messages across to the wiki.   Each message is appended to a page with the same name as the email subject and uses the email from address as the author name.  

*NOTE* This helper ignores the contents of the authenticators array in your start.rb file. 

To use, put the following in your start.rb file:

# @require 'mail2wiki-helper'@
# @Mail2WikiHelper.new( wiki, :server => 'imap.server', :username => 'user', :password => 'password', :mailbox => 'test')@

This will by default scan the mailbox every hour.  Once a message has been imported into the wiki it is tagged with a 'PutInWiki' keyword that prevents subsequent re-insertions.  To get the message to be re-inserted you must either change the keyword that soks looks for (see below) or unset the keyword using your email program.

There are a few other settings you can change:
<pre>
<code>
DEFAULT_SETTINGS = {
	:server => 'imap.hermes.cam.ac.uk',
	:username => 'tamc2',
	:password => 'missing_a_password',
	:mailbox => 'test',
	:check_event => :hour,
	:subject_regexp => /.*/,
	:keyword => 'PutInWiki'
}
</code>
</pre>
	

h2. RSS2WikiHelper

The rss to wiki helper periodically downloads an rss feed and copies it onto a specified page as a series of links.

To use, put the following in your start.rb file:

# @require 'rss2wiki-helper'@
# @RSS2WikiHelper.new( wiki, :url => 'url of rss feed' )@

By default it will check once an hour, and write the feed to a page with the same name as the feed title.

There are a few other settings you can change:
<pre>
<code>
	DEFAULT_SETTINGS = {
		:url => 'http://localhost:8000/rss/recent%20changes%20to%20this%20site',
		:pagename => nil, # If nil, uses channel title,
		:update_on_event => :hour,
		:author => 'AutomaticRSS2Wiki',
	}
</code>
</pre>

Tag: Include this page in the distribution
