h1. Improving the style of this wiki

If you develop any improvements to the layout and style of this wiki, and are willing to share, please send copies to me tamc@rubyforge.com (a zip of the view and attachment directory is probably the best method).

h2. Changing the logo on the right

The logo can be changed by replacing logo.jpg in the in the attachment folder of the wiki you have created ( soks-wiki/attachment/logo.tif by default)

h2. Changing the color scheme

The stylesheet is stored in the attachment folder of the wiki you have created (soks-wiki/attachment/stylesheet.css by default).

h2. Changing the html and layout

The formatting of the wiki is stored in the views subdirectory of the folder in which the wiki was created (soks-wiki/views by default).  These pages are all erb ( www.ruby-doc.org/stdlib/libdoc/erb/rdoc/classes/ERB.html ).

The folder contains:
* frame.rhtml - This is the bulk of the html and is used to wrap all pages except those ending in 'print' or 'rss'
* Page_view.rhtml - This is the 'standard' viewing page
* Page_edit.rhtml - This is the 'standard' editing page
* Page_revisions.rhtml - This is the 'standard' revisions page
* Page_rss.rhtml - This attempts to create a rss feed for changes to the page 

You can add a new type of view by creating a new file here ending in rthml, starting with Page and with _viewname in the middle.  E.g. for a new sort of 'doublesize' view you could create Page_doublesize.rhtml.  This would then be accessed by typing /doublesize/pagename as the url. 

Note that you must restart soks for changes to the template to take effect.

h2. Changing the default styles for NEW wikis 

To change the style and layout of new wikis created using the soks-create-wiki.rb command, then edit the 'template' directory of wherever you installed soks.

Tag: Include this page in the distribution
