h1. How to get the latest Soks from cvs

Note.  Soks now uses Darcs rather than CVS for development.

If you can't wait for the next release of Soks, then you can get a copy out of the source control system.  Note that the cvs copy of Soks *{color:red}may have serious bugs*, so please don't try and upgrade a running site with it. 

There are now three repositories:
* [[Soks-stable => changes to soks-stable]], that contains code that has been, or will shortly be, released.
* [[Soks-testing => changes to soks-stable]], that contians code that will probably make it to the next release.  www.soks.org uses the code from here.
* [[Soks-development => changes to soks-development]], that contains ideas and experiments.

There is a repository browser at http://www.counsell.org/darcs.

h2. Just download and go

I will try and maintain an up to date tar.gz copy of the repositories.  Unfortunately, until I find a way to hook into Darcs to create this on every change, it may not be 100% up to date.

# @wget http://www.counsell.org/darcs/soks-stable/soks-stable.tar.gz@
# @tar -xvzf soks-stable.tar.gzip@
# @cd soks-stable@ and play

Substitute soks-development or soks-testing for soks-stable if you require a different version.

h2. Using Darcs

Steps:
# If you don't have a copy of darcs, get it from www.darcs.net
# Go into a terminal
# @cd wherever_you_want_to_download_soks_to@
# @darcs get http://www.counsell.org/darcs/soks-stable@
# @cd soks-stable@ and play.

To update a repository you allready have:
# @cd wherever_you_downloaded_soks@
# @darcs pull http://www.counsell.org/darcs/soks-stable@
# Note, you can use this to pull specific patches from different versions of soks.

To send me a patch:
# @cd wherever_you_downloaded_soks@
# @darcs record@ to save your changes to your local copy
# Send it to me:
** @darcs send@ if your machine and firewall are configured so that sendmail works.
** @darcs send -o=patch-file.txt@ then e-mail darcs@soks.org with the patch-file attached.

Tag: Include this page in the distribution
