h1. Pointers on how to use this wiki

h2. Adding Pages

There are several ways to add pages to soks:
# Click on the 'add a new page'
# Highlight the text on the page you wish to link from and press crtl-n[1]
# Type the title of the page you wish to create and click search, there will be a link to create the page at the bottom of the search results.
# As you are editing a page, put the title of a new page in square brackets like this: <notextile>[[ title of the new page ]]</notextile>.  When you save the page, a link will be created that permits you to create a new page.

Yes, this means it is very easy to create orphaned pages. No I don't think this is a problem, because there is a site index.

fn1. This only works on some browsers.  It doesn't seem to work on Mac Firefox or Mac OmniWeb. It does on Mac Safari.  Please report your successes and failures.

h2. Editing Pages

* To edit a page, click edit this page at the bottom of the page. 
* The pages are written in textile.  A reference is at http://hobix.com/textile/quick.html
* Links to other pages within this wiki, and to web addresses, and to e-mail addresses, happen automatically
* To force a link put it inside double square brackets e.g. <notextile>[[a forced link]]</notextile>
* To alias a link: <notextile> [[ a different name for </notextile>=><notextile> site index ]] </notextile>
* To insert another page: <notextile>[ [ insert site index ]]</notextile>
* This is particularly usefull if you want to insert a picture: <notextile>[ [ insert picture of the soks logo ]]</notextile>
* It can also be usefull to save one step in directing people to download an attached file: <notextile>[ [ insert attached file to download ]]</notextile>.

h2. Searching

The search box on the right takes a single regular expression.

Tag: Include this page in the distribution
